Those remember the wrecking ball hitting those
columns and bouncing. They had a heck of a time
getting them down. And so that was a real tragedy.
There was, there's a metal and glass
sculpture that's kind of in a little courtyard
here between Rutter Auditorium and Rutter Tower.
It's kind of like a tree that's sitting there. And
some of us immediately dubbed that the ghost of
Guyon Hall. And probably nowadays nobody knows
that. And I understand that no one notified the
Guyon family that it was going to happen. And that
they learned of the demolition of the structure
when they saw a picture in the Waco paper. And a
couple of years later, they made a very meaningful
gift to Baylor. It was just an unfortunate
oversight on somebody's part. Did
you see We've Never Been Licked? Do you remember? I
have no idea how many times. I definitely saw it in
Guyon Hall. I can remember seeing it once when I was
a senior with a couple of juniors having a good
time. When you were an undergraduate and a group of
Aggies went to see a movie in Guyon Hall, what went
on during the movie? Oh, just critiquing the movie
as you went. Out loud? Reviews out loud,
responding with great enthusiasm. The same thing
that happened at the Campus Theater while it
operated at Northgate. Watching a movie there,
you'd have to go see it again to know what actually
happened. Because you would have people that had
already seen the movie six times, and so
everything would be anticipated. And if you
hadn't seen it before, well, then you were at a
pretty big disadvantage. Usually humorous.
Let's see. I suspect among the unforgettable
moments was a certain day in November of 1963.
Where were you when you heard the news of what had
happened in Dallas? I was on the first floor of
Moore Hall. Well, we were getting ready. I was a
junior. We were getting ready to go to the cut area
to cut a couple of trees. And I guess it was the next
night, Friday night, that we met in Guyon Hall. And
we were told that we weren't going to have a
bonfire. We sort of voted, but the decision had
already been made that there would not be a
bonfire. How did you hear? that President Kennedy
had been assassinated? Television. We were in the
hall. Somebody had on a small little black and
white TV. And I can remember seeing Walter
Cronkite. What did you all do or say? Shock, total
shock. Everything just changed. You started
listening to every word that you could get. Rumors
started immediately about all the potential
causes and stuff happening. I remember watching
everything that was on television in great
details. was watching when Oswald was shot, you
know, watching live at that time, watched the
funeral procession and, you know, very
distinctive memory. Then that, the football game
was the next Thursday here. We were, you know,
beyond lousy. We were one and eight. In those days
you played ten games. Texas was nine and oh, number
one in the country. And we played with them all the
way. I think the game was stolen from us. It was like
13 to 15, I believe. And the fish drill team
advisors, we had a 105 howitzer for the first time
in cow field firing it at the game. It was a very
overcast day. Mark Jackson and I got it. He was the
senior. Of course, we'd been fished together, if
you'll remember the older story. And O.D. Butler,
who was head of animal science, was also in the
reserves and had artillery pieces. And so he got us
this thing. Denzel Baker and General Rutter both
thought that we had all lost our minds, that this
was pretty stupid. So we had in the
simple condition of 1963 Kyle Field, they were
worried about the sound. Well, we were in the north
end firing south, and it shook the place, and it was
very overcast. And when we fired, they'd have to
wait for the kickoff until the smoke lifted. And we
led most of the game. Texas was moving on the final
drive. I think Brotherton intercepted. a ball or
picked up a fumble, one or the other. Intercepted.
Intercepted. Started running. If he'd have fell,
if he'd have just fallen down, we'd have won the
game. But he ran, he fumbled, they got the ball
back. They kept coming down the field, they threw a
pass, and a guy named Whittington, by photo
account, you know, intercepted the ball. But the
referee was 20 yards upfield and 20 yards to the
side. and happened to have gone to the University
of Texas and called him out of bounds. And then
Texas scored. General Rutter let school out on
Monday because of the effort. And that became a
hoped-for tradition.
Now, see, that's the kind of unforgettable
moments that I'm really glad to capture in here.
Let's go back to Bonfire. Can you recall your fish
year bonfire activities? This year, F2 was a stack
unit. We maybe went to the cut area once, but we
predominantly did all our work, you know, loading
logs and putting them on the stack. I remember it,
but as I mentioned earlier, my official lady was
from Louisiana. The head yell leader was from
Louisiana. And so we were connected to the head
yell leader and we were gophers for him running
errands because
my fish buddy had a car. And so we were doing
squirrely things. I don't remember working much,
except we did work stack some. And then... Do you
remember where the cutting area was? I have no idea
where it was. But it wasn't very far away then, was
it? No, it wasn't very far. Five miles or something
maybe. And the stack area was here? No, Duncan. It
was already at Duncan. Already at Duncan. And
about when did the cutting begin? The week before
the fox. Week before. If you were going to have the
fire on Tuesday or Wednesday, the Thanksgiving
week, it was the previous week that cut began. And
during the afternoons of that week, just like when
we were getting ready to go when Kennedy was
killed, juniors and seniors only could go to the
cut area and cut a few trees. Saturday, Sunday, and
Monday, there were no classes on Monday. were
bonfire, and then it burnt on Tuesday. It was not
sophisticated. It was basically the TP type
arrangement.
It should have stayed like that. And do you have any
idea where that year's outhouse came from? Now, I
think for a while, they were definitely stolen. I
think it was probably early 80s before the band
started constructing an outhouse. And finally,
well, I think it might have been early 70s. Because
in the early 70s, I was the aide to the commanding
general of the 420th Engineer Brigade, Joe
Hanover. And he was the district highway
engineer. and there was the practice of taking
every sign that had Austin 28 miles or whatever for
100 miles and bringing them and putting them on the
bonfire. Well, they finally got mad and said, at
$25 a sign, or who knows what the cost was, that
needs to stop. So shortly thereafter, students
agreed to construct the outhouse and to construct
signs that said what they wanted. And the cutting
area, did they yet use chainsaws at all? There were
a few chainsaws. During your student days, do you
remember any injuries? I can remember a broken leg
or something like that.
I don't remember any. That's serious, but I don't
remember any other. How much partying was there in
that era? I don't remember any. I have no recall of
any of that happening. You mainly were guarding
the campus. See, in those days we guarded every
single sully, cow field. We had campfires all over
the campus guarding the fish pond. So you just had
reasons to be up all night for three days. Do you
remember any invaders that attempted to do this?
Usually if they're my senior year I remember
because I was in charge of that of security and we
chased some kids and the college station police
helped us and they were high school kids you know
just being crazy but You would get this rumor that
the Texas fraternity was coming and we would stake
out the road, Highway 60 coming in and stuff. I
don't know of anything ever happening. During
your student days, were there any Aggie
kidnappings of Southwest Conference mascots?
When I was a junior, that was the year they took them
all. The fall of 63. I had some of those in class. Do
you remember any of the reports of that? The one I
remember is Bevo because we had a practice where at
10, 30, or 11, we would go to Coach Norton's, which
was a coffee shop, and have coffee and maybe some
pancakes and then come back and either go to bed or
study. Well, this was a night when I had a test the
next morning, and my intention was to stay up all
that night, and I had some no-dos. Well, I made a
mistake. I took the no-dose, and then I took the
coffee. So when we got back to the residence hall,
to the dorm, it was Moore Hall again. We went in the
room, and the guys started telling stories, and I
talked all night. And the only reason I stopped is
at about 4.30 or 5 o'clock or sometime, they came in
and said, Bevo is over in the Duncan area. You know,
let's go. And we did, and I did not do well on that
test. And am I correct in remembering that there
was no injury damage to Bevo in any way? And is that
the year that when they rented the trailer, they
signed their... Oh, that's later when they
were... They signed their own names. Yeah, that
was the fall of 72.
Describe a football, home football game day, game
day routine. What time did things begin to happen?
I would several times had a date that would come in
sometime that day. You had the normal practice of
buying the mums, you know, the big maroon and white
mums. You would go to lunch or breakfast,
whichever was right, in the dining hall. And then
you'd have the march in and be in the stands and
watch the game and parade around the campus after
that and go eat and stay where you could and have a
nice time and lose the ball game. And marched in by,
there was a full corps march in. Just like there is
today. Because see, earlier that, you just went.
They followed the band, but they didn't, there was
no... Oh, really? No, we had the march-ins in my
day. The, let's see, and there normally was not a,
if it was a day game, there normally was not a big
organized Saturday night activity, was there?
Normally not, that I recall. Right. What about a
court trip? Describe that. Court trips were
interesting. Of course, you got there by whatever
arrangements you could make. So you had four and
five people in a car or whatever, usually staying
at buddies' houses. I had three guys where we
stayed at an aunt and uncle's house my senior year
in the Dallas area. The Mother's Clubs did host
Friday night dances in a major convention center,
an easy place to get to. And a lot of people would go
to TWU and get dates and then come back for that
dance and then carry them back to TWU. And then
Saturday morning, fairly early, 9 or 10 o'clock,
You would have the parade in the downtown of that
city, and then the game in the afternoon. Did you
make most of the court trips? Made them all, as far
as I recall. Was there a favorite and a least
favorite of the four places? I don't recall that
being the case. Do you remember any rudeness or
meanness of the local folks in any of the four
cities? No. Houston, Fort Worth, Dallas, and
Austin. There were probably more catcalls in
Austin because you had a little broader, but I
don't remember any.
I've heard stories about beast buckets and moose
pots. I've heard those stories.
Basically, some kind of bedding system that would
relate to the quality of the dates, be they male or
female. Did you and your buddies write letters to
TWU? We did, to your PO box. That's what I've heard.
The same number. Did you ever do that? I did it. I
don't remember anything coming out of it. You
don't remember a date? I don't remember a connect.
Oh, okay. But I remember doing it. And they would
come down here on the train? Well, old days, but
they would come on buses and cars in the 60s. And
stay everywhere? Stay everywhere. They would
even clear out some dorm space, I think, and make
room for them. How were the girls treated? I think
very well. I've never heard anything but positive
that they kind of felt like they were royalty.
Yeah. Were the big spring dances still going on?
Yes, they were. Fish ball, sophomore ball, junior
ball. Cotton ball. Boot dance, cotton ball. Boot
dance. All happening. Was there one that was
notably bigger?
I think they were all fairly same size. I mean, they
were all pretty big. They were mostly in Sebesa
Dining Hall. The combat bash was big, and you had a
lot of extra people, a lot of military people,
because it was on military weekend. And it was
usually in Duncan Dining Hall. And then the
military ball was more formal and was in Sebesa
Dining Hall. And in those days, they would have
seven or eight general officers here as part of the
festivities during that weekend, and they would
all parade in and parade out. And what was the
behavior pattern for those? Polite.
Straightforward. Did you ever hitchhike? I
wasn't much on hitchhiking. I did some. And it was
still happening when I first came back. It
probably stopped in the very early 70s is when it
pretty much dried up. But I would stop at the known
spot in Houston when I was coming back. Where was
it? From home. It was on 290 on Hempstead Road. I
don't remember the exact location. This side of
what is now the 610 loop? No, it would have been on
the, oh, 610. Yeah, it would have been out
Hempstead out of 610. Okay. But not as far out as the
new Beltway 8. Yeah. Did you ever hear of any
negative? Any Aggie that had a negative hitchhike
experience? I haven't. I haven't yet heard of any.
And everyone emphasizes that there was, that rank
did not matter when you were hitchhiking. You took
your turn. Who was first. Who was first. And that in
most of the big cities, there was a fairly known
place that you went to, and you never held a sign up.
You just had on your uniform and your thumb. Yeah,
and they didn't all have uniforms on, you know,
when I, in about 70, 69 and 70, when I was picking
people up. When you were an undergraduate, what
were the most notable, and I'm using that word to
mean most respected, student organizations? If I
wanted prestige, what organizations would I have
tried to join? Well, remember I had a very heavy
Corps connection, so you would say the Ross
Volunteers. I think that the MSC Council had a very
positive influence. Student government by
today's standards was teeny, but you still knew
who some of those people were. Corps
Commander. Yeah, if you named individuals, a core
commander, student body president, head Yale
leader. Yale leaders were all known individuals,
clearly a student leader. Lots of leadership
positions belong to the head Yale leader that have
evolved into other things. Bonfire orientation
programs, muster, all of those are separate
groups now. Were you aware in that era of any secret
fraternities? I wasn't aware of any. I've read
everything about them in the last number of years,
but it wasn't something that I knew about.
Let's see. Brownfield had long ceased. Right.
Let's see. Did you have a car? I didn't have a car.
Never had a car. How'd you get around? Friends.
Rode the bus. How often would you go to and from
Houston?
Two or three times a semester. And just for the
weekend. Usually the weekend. You would go
because of a court trip. You would go because of
football games with people. You went by bus more
often than train? Never went by train. The train
was pretty much not operating at that stage. And
about two hours? The 60s. Yeah, it was a little over
two hours. It was cheap. Did you as a student have
any interaction with the local community? Did you
go to church or anything off campus? Went to the
A&M, you know, the College Station Baptist, First
Baptist. Particularly my freshman year was not,
I'd been active through high school and
elementary, but I wasn't very active. Was
religious emphasis week? Still happening. And
what was it like for a student? All I remember is all
of the organizations that had an orientation in
that way, you know, had exposure, and if you wanted
to have a level of involvement, you could. In
the summer, you went to Camp... I went to summer
school. Of course, one summer was part of being
laid out. At the end of my sophomore year, I stayed
in summer school. End of my junior year, I stayed in
summer school. And then my senior year is when I
went to camp after I graduated. So that A&M didn't
play any important role in helping you get a summer
job or post-graduate experiences or anything
like that? No, remember I was only intending to be
commissioned. All right, let's see. We've talked
about court trips and student and game day.
What was final review like, particularly for a
senior? I think final review was pretty solemn.
People had just been commissioned and graduation
had taken place, lots of families. It was in early
June, so it was hotter than the blue blazes. I mean,
it was very hot. You were already felt like you felt
kind of removed. You felt like it was over. You were
essentially ready to go. It's time to move on and do
something else. But pretty teary eyed. It didn't
take very long to change. The time between the
first review and the second review I don't think
was very long. There was very little monkey
business that took place. You just kind of marched
across and you became the reviewing party. That
got out of hand in the late 70s and through some of
the 80s and it just became a circus. And the Corps
has really done a good job of cleaning that up here
in the last five or six years where I think it has a
serious resemblance to the way it was in the past.
It's very orderly and very emotional. I think the
emotion is higher Much higher. Held on the drill
field. It's still held on the drill field. Only
time it wasn't is there was about a three-year
period where Simpson Drill Field was being major
re-sodded.
And do you remember who some of the reviewing
officers, were they important? I don't remember
when I was a student. I don't remember any of them.
How did you feel when you put on those senior boots
officially the first time? Felt pretty good. That
pour down rain at the end of that, all during that
final review, just absolute quagmire.
Big smiles.
Mother came to that. Mother. Reese was still here
on the staff, but mother and grandma. Okay. All
right, then commencement. Describe it.
Commencement, it was a full miracle that I
graduated, and so 37 members of my family came to
graduation. Mother made arrangements for the
buffet at the Ramada Inn at, I think, $5 a head, and
they
all ended up on the, side of G. Raleigh on the west
side and there was a photo taken of the stage and of
that side and my entire family is in the photo in the
yearbook. Grandma, aunts, uncles, cousins. I was
the first to graduate from a college. Do you
remember who the speaker was? I have no idea.
Almost no one, and whenever I make a commencement
speech, I always indicate that I'm aware no one has
come to hear the speaker. They've come to see a
certain person walk across the stage. That's the
reason they're there. But your name was called and
pronounced correctly. Right. And your hand was
shaken. And how long did it take you to look into the
tube? I probably looked pretty fast. I'm
convinced that's one of the very, very, very quiet
important traditions. Yeah, but to still do it.
Yes. With, you know, 4,000 some odd graduating
here in three ceremonies, you know, in a week. It's
just, it's so wonderful, but it's very
extraordinary. And almost every other
institution I know of in the country has long
ago... Given up on it. Given up and, you know, I
hereby, therefore, will mail it to you and so no one
attends. It's awesome. Yes. And I've, of course,
the last seven years I've been on the stage and for
all three ceremonies and it's amazing how fast
they go. And I'm, I don't make a pre-list. I just try
to be alert. And so I, I don't know how many people I
shake hands with, but a pretty big number. And you
have the ability to do that. And it's really cool.
It's really neat. One of my favorite anecdotes
involved the messages that some students put on
their morgue. Yeah, we're all looking for those.
All right, my favorite one was about 25 years ago.
One young lad put on his, hell froze over. Yeah, I
can relate to that one. Your first silver taps, do
you remember that? I remember going as a freshman.
You had to completely, everything was turned off.
We were still small, so there was an attempt to turn
everything off, not just in the central academic
area. And we could stay up and study when we went
back, but you had to have a blanket tucked into the
window where there wasn't the slightest chance of
light getting out the window. Very orderly, very
quiet, very impressive. Did it seem meaningful to
you? Very meaningful. It's never lost it. Did you
have the impression that it was just like it had
been for many, many years? Yes. All right. What
about muster? Did you go to muster? Yes. It was on
the lawn of the MSC one year. It was on the lawn of the
administration building, like one near.
I have good memories. I don't remember them being
too terribly long. I don't remember any speakers.
But the ceremony and the impact of the firing squad
and the roll call and everything is a very strong
memory. As you were getting ready to leave the
campus as a graduating senior, how well prepared
did you feel A&M had made you?
I felt fine and fully prepared to be an army officer
and thought that I would do okay and did okay. If you
could today line up all of the people that you now
know had a positive effect on your career from
those undergraduate days, who would you most want
to? Well, I've named most of them already. It
wasn't a huge list, but mother has an impact,
grandma has an impact, The ants sending brownies
when you're a fish has an impact. Aunt Ruth's
brownies were the best brownies in the world. And
when you show up with a shoebox, there's a real clue
what this is. And so all of a sudden, you were a
really nice guy.
Calvin Reese played a very important point. Dan
Lowe played an important point. George Rice.
There were people that stepped up when they were
given the opportunity. Hannigan was very nice
every time I had anything to do with him, very
supportive. He knew that I was just as mediocre a
student as I was.